It is a truth universally acknowledged, that a single man in possession of a good fortune, must be in want of a wife. However little known the feelings or views of such a man may be on his first entering a neighbourhood, this truth is so well fixed in the minds of the surrounding families, that he is considered the rightful property of some one or other of their daughters. "My dear Mr. Bennet," said his lady to him one day, "have you heard that Netherfield Park is let at last?" Mr. Bennet replied that he had not. "But it is," returned she; "for Mrs. Long has just been here, and she told me all about it." Mr. Bennet made no answer. "Do you not want to know who has taken it?" cried his wife impatiently. "You want to tell me, and I have no objection to hearing it." This was invitation enough. "Why, my dear, you must know, Mrs. Long says that Netherfield is taken by a young man of large fortune from the north of England; that he came down on Monday in a chaise and four to see the place, and was so much delighted with it, that he agreed with Mr. Morris immediately; that he is to take possession before Michaelmas, and some of his servants are to be in the house by the end of next week." "What is his name?" "Bingley." "Is he married or single?" "Oh! Single, my dear, to be sure! A single man of large fortune; four or five thousand a year. What a fine thing for our girls!" "How so? How can it affect them?" "My dear Mr. Bennet," replied his wife, "how can you be so tiresome! You must know that I am thinking of his marrying one of them." "Is that his design in settling here?" "Design! Nonsense, how can you talk so! But it is very likely that he may fall in love with one of them, and therefore you must visit him as soon as he comes." "I see no occasion for that. You and the girls may go, or you may send them by themselves, which perhaps will be still better, for as you are as handsome as any of them, Mr. Bingley may like you the best of the party." "My dear, you flatter me. I certainly have had my share of beauty, but I do not pretend to be anything extraordinary now. When a woman has five grown-up daughters, she ought to give over thinking of her own beauty." "In this case, a woman has not often much beauty to think of." "But, my dear, you must indeed go and see Mr. Bingley when he comes." "It is more than I engage for, I assure you." "But consider your daughters. Only think what an establishment it would be for one of them. Sir William and Lady Lucas are determined to go, merely on that account, for in general, you know, they visit no new-comers. Indeed you must go, for it will be impossible for us to visit him, if you do not." "You are over-scrupulous, surely. I dare say Mr. Bingley will be very glad to see you; and I will send a few lines by you to assure him of my hearty consent to his marrying whichever he chooses of the girls; though I must throw in a good word for my little Lizzy." "I desire you will do no such thing. Lizzy is not a bit better than the others; and I am sure she is not half so handsome as Jane, nor half so good-humoured as Lydia. But you are always giving her the preference." "They have none of them much to recommend them," replied he; "they are all silly and ignorant like other girls; but Lizzy has something more of quickness than her sisters." "Mr. Bennet, how can you abuse your own children in such a way? You take delight in vexing me. You have no compassion for my poor nerves." "You mistake me, my dear. I have a high respect for your nerves. They are my old friends. I have been acquainted with them these twenty years at least; and I have had great pleasure in hearing you mention them with so much consideration." "Ah! you do not know what I suffer." "But I hope you will get over it, and live to see many young men of four thousand a year come into the neighbourhood." "It will be no use to us, if twenty such should come since you will not visit them." "Depend upon it, my dear, that when there are twenty, I will visit them all." Mr. Bennet was among the earliest of those who waited on Mr. Bingley. He had always intended to visit him, though to the last always assuring his wife that he should not go; and till the evening after the visit was paid she had no knowledge of it. She was engaged one day as usual, when the following note was handed to her from the door, with an injunction from her husband to make what use of it she thought proper. "I have just received a letter from a friend," said she, "which I must read to you." "From whom is it? and what is it about?" "It is from my brother, Mr. Gardiner; and I hope it will not be long before he comes to town." "Does he say so? Does he give you any time?" "He says that he will be here in a few days." "I am glad to hear it. It is a long time since I have seen him." "And I am glad to see him too. We shall have a great many things to say to each other." "I am sure we shall. It will be a very pleasant surprise to him." "Indeed it will. I am sure he will be very glad to see us." "And so am I. I am sure we shall be very good friends." "I hope so." "And now, my dear, I must go." "You must go? Where are you going?" "I am going to see a friend." "A friend! Who is it?" "It is a secret." "A secret! I must know it." "You shall know it, but not now." "Then I will go with you." "No, you cannot." "But I must." "You cannot." "Then I will not go." "You must." "I will not." "Then I will go alone." "You shall not." "I will." "You shall not." "I will." And so they parted; and the lady, in the triumph of her obstinacy, was on the point of rushing from the house, when her husband called out, "My dear, I have something to say to you." She stopped, and looked at him with an air of impatience. "What is it?" said she. "I have something to tell you," said he. "What is it?" "I have a secret to tell you." "A secret! I must know it." "You shall know it, but not now." "Then I will go with you." "No, you cannot." "But I must." "You cannot." "Then I will not go." "You must." "I will not." "Then I will go alone." "You shall not." "I will." "You shall not." "I will." And so they parted; and the lady, in the triumph of her obstinacy, was on the point of rushing from the house, when her husband called out, "My dear, I have something to say to you." She stopped, and looked at him with an air of impatience. "What is it?" said she. "I have something to tell you," said he. "What is it?" "I have a secret to tell you." "A secret! I must know it." "You shall know it, but not now." "Then I will go with you." "No, you cannot." "But I must." "You cannot." "Then I will not go." "You must." "I will not." "Then I will go alone." "You shall not." "I will." "You shall not." "I will." And so they parted; and the lady, in the triumph of her obstinacy, was on the point of rushing from the house, when her husband called out, "My dear, I have something to say to you." She stopped, and looked at him with an air of impatience. "What is it?" said she. "I have something to tell you," said he. "What is it?" "I have a secret to tell you." "A secret! I must know it." "You shall know it, but not now." "Then I will go with you." "No, you cannot." "But I must." "You cannot." "Then I will not go." "You must." "I will not." "Then I will go alone." "You shall not." "I will." "You shall not." "I will." And so they parted; and the lady, in the triumph of her obstiny, was on the point of rushing from the house, when her husband called out, "My dear, I have something to say to you." She stopped, and looked at him with an air of impatience. "What is it?" said she. "I have something to tell you," said he. "What is it?" "I have a secret to tell you." "A secret! I must know it." "You shall know it, but not now." "Then I will go with you." "No, you cannot." "But I must." "You cannot." "Then I will not go." "You must." "I will not." "Then I will go alone." "You shall not." "I will." "You shall not." "I will." And so they parted; and the lady, in the triumph of her obstinacy, was on the point of rushing from the house, when her husband called out, "My dear, I have something to say to you." She stopped, and looked at him with an air of impatience. "What is it?" said she. "I have something to tell you," said he. "What is it?" "I have a secret to tell you." "A secret! I must know it." "You shall know it, but not now." "Then I will go with you." "No, you cannot." "But I must." "You cannot." "Then I will not go." "You must." "I will not." "Then I will go alone." "You shall not." "I will." "You shall not." "I will." And so they parted; and the lady, in the triumph of her obstinacy, was on the point of rushing from the house, when her husband called out, "My dear, I have something to say to you." She stopped, and looked at him with an air of impatience. "What is it?" said she. "I have something to tell you," said he. "What is it?" "I have a secret to tell you." "A secret! I must know it." "You shall know it, but not now." "Then I will go with you." "No, you cannot." "But I must." "You cannot." "Then I will not go." "You must." "I will not." "Then I will go alone." "You shall not." "I will." "You shall not." "I will." And so they parted; and the lady, in the triumph of her obstinacy, was on the point of rushing from the house, when her husband called out, "My dear, I have something to say to you." She stopped, and looked at him with an air of impatience. "What is it?" said she. "I have something to tell you," said he. "What is it?" "I have a secret to tell you." "A secret! I must know it." "You shall know it, but not now." "Then I will go with you." "No, you cannot." "But I must." "You cannot." "Then I will not go." "You must." "I will not." "Then I will go alone." "You shall not." "I will." "You shall not." "I will." And so they parted; and the lady, in the triumph of her obstinacy, was on the point of rushing from the house, when her husband called out, "My dear, I have something to say to you." She stopped, and looked at him with an air of impatience. "What is it?" said she. "I have something to tell you," said he. "What is it?" "I have a secret to tell you." "A secret! I must know it." "You shall know it, but not now." "Then I will go with you." "No, you cannot." "But I must." "You cannot." "Then I will not go." "You must." "I will not." "Then I will go alone." "You shall not." "I will." "You shall not." "I will." And so they parted; and the lady, in the triumph of her obstinacy, was on the point of rushing from the house,. This should be enough to test the sentence splitting.
